feat: add documentation on slim controller (#156)
agntcy/docs: docs/messaging/slim-controller.md

- **Connection Management**: Set up and monitor connections between SLIM nodes.
- **Node Discovery**: List registered nodes and their status.

The southbound interface allows SLIM nodes to register with the Controller and receive configuration updates. It includes:

- **Node Registration**: Nodes can register themselves with the Controller.
- **Node De-registration**: Nodes can unregister when shutting down.
- **Configuration Distribution**: The Controller can push configuration updates to registered nodes.
- **Bidirectional Communication**: Supports real-time communication between the Controller and nodes.

### System Context Diagram

![System Context Diagram](/docs/assets/slim-system-context-controller.png)

### Container Diagram

![Container Diagram](/docs/assets/slim-container-controller.png)

### Configuring the SLIM Controller

The Controller can be configured through the `config.yaml` file. An example configuration:

```yaml
northbound:
  httpHost: localhost
  httpPort: 50051
  logging:
    level: DEBUG

southbound:
  httpHost: localhost
  httpPort: 50052
  logging:
    level: DEBUG
```

## Usage

## Prerequisites

> Go 1.23.6 or later is required for running the SLIM Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go 1.24 or later is required for running the SLIM Controller.
```

Task runner is recommended for Taskfile commands.

### Building the Controller

The Controller can be built by running the following task:

```
# Build all Controller components
task control-plane:build

# Or build just the Controller binary
task control-plane:control-plane:build
```

### Starting the Controller

The Controller can be started by running the following task:

```bash
# Start the Controller service

> task control-plane:control-plane:run

Reviewer: We might also want to cite the docker image here 🤔

```

### Managing Nodes

Nodes register themselves upon startup with the Controller. Once registered, the controller can communicate with nodes using the same connection.

> 

Reviewer: To register nodes should be configured with the address of the controller in this way:

```yaml
  tracing:
    log_level: info
    display_thread_names: true
    display_thread_ids: true

  runtime:
    n_cores: 0
    thread_name: "slim-data-plane"
    drain_timeout: 10s

  services:
    slim/1:
      pubsub:
        servers: []
        clients: []
      controller:
        servers: []
        clients:
          - endpoint: "http://<controller-address>:50052"
            tls:
              insecure: true
```

Nodes can be managed through slimctl. For more information, see the [slimctl](#slimctl). 

## slimctl

`slimctl` is the command-line interface for the SLIM controller.

### Configuring slimctl

`slimctl` supports configuration through a configuration file, environment variables, or command-line flags.

By default, `slimctl` looks for a configuration file at `$HOME/.slimctl/config.yaml` or in the current working directory. 

An example `config.yaml`:

```yaml

> server: "127.0.0.1:46358"

Reviewer: The slim controller port is normally 50001

timeout: "10s"
tls:
  insecure: false
  ca_file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
  cert_file: "/path/to/client.pem"
  key_file: "/path/to/client.key"
```

The `server` endpoint should point to a [SLIM Control](https://github.com/agntcy/slim/tree/main/control-plane/control-plane) endpoint which is a central service managing SLIM node configurations.

### Commands

List connection on a SLIM instance:

`slimctl connection list --node-id=<slim_node_id>` List connection on a SLIM instance.

List routes on a SLIM instance:

`slimctl route list --node-id=<slim_node_id>`

Add a route to the SLIM instance:

`slimctl route add <organization/namespace/agentName/agentId> via <config_file> --node-id=<slim_node_id>` 

Delete a route from the SLIM instance:

`slimctl route del <organization/namespace/agentName/agentId> via <host:port> --node-id=<slim_node_id>` 

Print version information:

`slimctl version`

Run `slimctl <command> --help` for more details on flags and usage.

### Example: Create, Delete Route

```bash
# Add a new route

> cat >> connection_config.json <<EOF
> {
> "endpoint": "http://127.0.0.1:46357"
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cat >> connection_config.json <<EOF
{
"endpoint": "http://127.0.0.1:46357"
}
EOF
```

slimctl route add org/default/alice/0 via connection_config.json

# Delete an existing route
slimctl route del org/default/alice/0 via http://localhost:46367
```

For full reference of connection_config.json, see the [client-config-schema.json](https://github.com/agntcy/slim/blob/main/data-plane/core/config/src/grpc/schema/client-config.schema.json).

### Managing SLIM Nodes Directly

> SLIM nodes can be configured to expose a Controller endpoint of a SLIM instance, slimctl can connect to this endpoint to manage the SLIM instance directly by using slimctl `node-connect` sub-command. In this case, in the configuration file, the server should point to the SLIM instance endpoint.

Reviewer: In this case, the node should be configured to host a server to allow the client to connect:

```yaml 
  tracing:
    log_level: info
    display_thread_names: true
    display_thread_ids: true

  runtime:
    n_cores: 0
    thread_name: "slim-data-plane"
    drain_timeout: 10s

  services:
    slim/1:
      pubsub:
        servers: []
        clients: []
      controller:
        servers:
            - endpoint: "0.0.0.0:46358"
              tls:
                insecure: true # Or specify tls cert and key
        clients: []
```
